= Lunr

* http://github.com/jbarnette/lunr

== Description

A simple read-only interface to Solr, built on Sunspot.

Lunr makes it easy to query and create objects from a Sunspot-managed
Solr index without requiring all the knowledge, code, and data used to
build the index in the first place. If you have complex indexes with a
stored fields and need to search / access those fields without access
to the original data store, Lunr might be what you're looking for.

== A Lunr Model

  require "lunr"

  class My::SimpleTrack
    include Lunr::Model

    searches "Track" do
      property :album,  :text
      property :artist, :text
      property :title,  :text

      time    :accepted_at
      boolean :hot
      string  :state
    end

    scope do
      order_by :hot, :desc
      order_by :accepted_at, :desc

      with :state, "accepted"
    end

    scope :hot do
      with :hot, true
    end

    scope :state do |q, state|
      q.with :state, state
    end
  end

=== Including the Module

All model classes must <code>include Lunr::Model</code>.

=== Define the Search Index

Time to tell Solr what this class searches, and which fields are
properties. The DSL in here is exactly the same as Sunspot's, with the
addition of a <code>property</code> method. Calling
<code>property</code> tells Lunr that you expect access to this field,
generates an <code>attr_reader</code> and passes it along to Sunspot's
DSL as <code>:stored => true</code>.

    searches "Track" do
      property :album,  :text
      property :artist, :text
      property :title,  :text

      time    :accepted_at
      boolean :hot
      string  :state
    end

The <code>searches</code> method also takes an optional type name,
which can be used to map Lunr model types to differing search
results. In this case, <code>My::SimpleTrack</code> will search
documents with an original type of <code>Track</code>.

List every criteria you might want to search by, but omit any of
Sunspot's DSL that involves indexing.

=== Default Scope

Call <code>scope</code> with no name to set default filtering,
ordering, and pagination properties.

    scope do
      order_by :hot, :desc
      order_by :accepted_at, :desc

      with :state, "accepted"
    end

=== Named Scopes

You can define any number of named scopes to make searching
simpler. They're made availble as static methods on the model class,
and they're chainable when searching. See the "Searching" section
below.

    scope :hot do
      with :hot, true
    end

Scope blocks without parameters are <code>instance_eval</code>ed in
the Sunspot query DSL's context. If your scope takes parameters, the
first param must be the Sunspot query object.

    scope :state do |q, state|
      q.with :state, state
    end

== Searching

Use Sunspot's excellent search DSL for ad hoc searches.

    My::SimpleTrack.search
    My::SimpleTrack.all # same thing

    My::SimpleTrack.search { with :title, "Hello" }
    My::SimpleTrack.first  { with :title, "First!" }

All searches return a <code>Lunr::Search</code> object, and searches
can be narrowed using the Sunspot query DSL or named scopes. Searches
aren't run until an <code>Enumerable</code>, arraylike, or pagination
method is called on the search object. For convenience,
<code>Lunr::Search</code> quacks like
<code>WillPaginate::Collection</code>.

   search = My::SimpleTrack.hot.scope { |q| q.fulltext "hello" }
   p :page => search.page, :total => search.total

   search.each do |track|
     puts "#{track.title} by #{track.artist} on #{track.album}."
   end

== Installation

    $ gem install lunr

== Development

Lunr is under pretty heavy development. It was extracted from a Real
Application, and barely has any tests of its own. It will be in flux a
bit. Contributions and suggestions are very welcome.

Install the <code>isolate</code> gem and run <code>rake</code>. All
dev dependencies will be installed automatically.

== License

Copyright 2010 John Barnette (code@jbarnette.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
